### Software Engineer, Monadic

* **Location**: Berlin, or remote in Europe
* **Commitment**: Full-time
* **Compensation**: 80'000 EUR/year starting salary with 0.25% - 0.75% equity[^1]
* **Paid vacation**: 28 days+

At Monadic, the company behind Oscoin, we're building our initial engineering
team. We're looking for candidates with a minimum of 5-7 years of industry
experience who are well versed in functional programming and distributed
systems.

We'd like to speak to candidates who are empathetic, humble, passionate about
their work and strive for excellence.

Our language of choice is Haskell. You will be tasked to build and deploy
fault-tolerant distributed systems based on cryptographic proofs, authenticated
data-structured and distributed-ledger technologies. You will have to keep up
to date with recent developments in the field. The ability to read research
papers and produce working implementations is essential. You will have to be an
excellent communicator, both in oral and written form.

Currently, all of our efforts are focused on building the reference
implementation of [Oscoin](http://oscoin.io), an open-source protocol and
network for decentralized code hosting and collaboration which aims to make
open-source development more sustainable.

We realize that finding candidates who meet all our criteria is difficult.
However, we invest in people primarly, not technologies: if you are a seasoned
distributed systems engineer but lack experience with Haskell, we can get you
up to speed.

At Monadic, the culture is the people we hire. We have core tenets which you
will learn about, but these revolve principally around how we treat each other
and what standards we try to meet when working with each other.

If you'd like to reach out, please send us an email at <jobs@monadic.xyz> with
your résumé and links to or samples of work you've done, as well as any other
information you deem relevant.

[^1]: The starting salary is equal for all employees, including founders. We
  believe in having a level playing field for everyone and keeping the team
  small. Equity is negotiable based on experience.
